---
layout: post
title: "Trivia"
date: 2005-03-17 1:22
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
permalink: /2005/03/trivia
categories: [Music, Technology]
tags: [itunes, Music, typekey]
---
As of right now, exactly 1000 of the 3784 songs in my iTunes playlist have ratings.  I don't know how seriously other people take the rating system, but I don't particularly - I mostly use it to weed out music I don't like.  I've downloaded whole albums because I liked a single, or grabbed whole collections from bands that have been recommended to me, so I'm trying to go through my collection and clean out the crap I don't want.  It wasn't a big deal until I had too much music for my 20GB iPod, but the whole thing is down around 18.5GB now.

Also, I can't for the life of me figure out why Type Key isn't working.  As far as I can tell, clicking on the Type Key sign-in link for comments just gives the illusion of browser activity for 30 seconds.  I don't get an error, it never goes to another page, nothing.  If anyone has seen more reasonable behavior with comments on this site, please let me know.  I'm cruising various forums and stuff, trying to find an answer, but no dice so far.

<b>UPDATE:</b>
It occurred to me that I should try the Type Key thing in IE, just to see what happens.  It makes it as far as the Type Key login page (good sign!), where I can enter my user name and password.  Upon submitting the information, I am inundated with porno pop-ups (better sign!)  Lucky for me, I just make a Windows XP Service Pack 2 boot disk this evening, so I'm going to re-build my machine tomorrow or early next week (I'll be home for the weekend).  Once I've got a clean slate, I think I'll get Apache set up and migrate this site to my desktop.
