---
layout: post
title: "2006: Not So Great"
date: 2006-12-31 18:15
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
permalink: /2006/12/2006-not-so-great
categories: [Life]
tags: [2006]
---
<p>This year has been a disappointment, and I'm not the first to say so publicly.  It was going to be good, but I suppose that 2005 was a tough act to follow.  I had planned to do a monthly review of the past year (just like everyone else), but ya know what, I really don't feel like it anymore.  Here's a quick and dirty, in no particular order:</p>

<p>Visited Rochester a couple times.  Visited Buffalo a couple times.  Visited Pennsylvania a couple times.  Visited Chapel Hill not too long ago.  BP visited us a bunch of times.  Family visited, and we touristed.  A bunch of other people came to visit.  Moved in with Fotios and Jym, then Matt moved in.  Got rid of the car, then it got hit by a deer.  Grew a long goatee.  Drove to Nashville and back (with a week in between) for work.  Started smoking again, then quit again last month.  Read a bunch of books, watched a bunch of movies.  Saw Flogging Molly a couple of times and Against Me once.  Got a root canal.  Decided to write more, then didn't.  Decided to win the lottery, then didn't.  Decided to go to the gym on a regular basis, then did, for a little bit.  Went to Flugtag.</p>

<p>That pretty much sums it up.  There were quite a few really good weekends in there, but overall, it wasn't that great.</p>

<p>Of course, making next year better hinges on identifying the things that can be improved.  I think that changing things up more often and rejuvenating my social life will help things considerably.  This is the first full year I've been out of school and I sort of fell into the "go to work, make dinner, watch a movie, sleep, repeat" routine.  While I was at RIT, everything changed every three months - different classes, which meant seeing different people every day, and a different schedule for class and work.  Additionally, there were always a ton of people around.  I worked, studied, and partied with my peers, and I loved it.  I met new people almost daily.  I always had some project that needed to be done, to keep me occupied, and at the end of each quarter, I had something to show for the past three months.</p>

<p>I know people are tired of me whining about how much I miss college, but tough shit - it worked for me, better than anything else I've known before or since.  I've been entertaining the idea of grad school; now would be the best time to do it, but I've got enough student loans to deal with as it is.  That might be something to look into more next year, though.</p>

<p>Anyway, the burden to make next year better is on me, and to that end, I've come up with a bunch of resolutions that should help:</p>

<ol>
<li>Go to the gym at least twice a week, preferably more.</li>
<li>Spend less time just hanging out in the apartment.</li>
<li>Get a handle on my finances.</li>
<li>Be more positive about life in general.</li>
<li>Try brewing beer.</li>
<li>Do more personal projects.</li>
</ol>

<p>There were others on the first draft of the list that I've since decided to put off.  For example, I added "Move into DC" <a href="/2006/11/dupont-gay">last month</a> when I decided I wanted to live in Dupont, but have since determined that it would be in my best interest to stay here in Arlington for another year.  I also wanted to build or buy a kegerator, so we can have good beer on tap all the time, but that needs to wait until I can afford it and have somewhere to put it.</p>

<p>Actually writing all of this has been more therapeutic than I expected.  I'm trying not to make it sound like the past year was awful, because really, it wasn't.  However, this is the first time in a long time (maybe ever) that I can really say I haven't been happy with the previous year.  Maybe 2007 will be great, maybe I'm just overthinking things.  Maybe the start of the new year will be just as anticlimatic as it always is: no different from the day before.  At least this time around, I'll have a reason to make it more than that.</p>
