---
layout: post
title: "Big Moves"
date: 2007-12-19 20:00
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
permalink: /2007/12/big-moves
categories: [Life]
tags: [erin, Life, moving, Work]
---
It's Wednesday night, and I finally have enough energy to talk about the weekend.  Erin and I moved in together, which has been great, and my company moved to a new office.  As far as I'm concerned, I did three moves this weekend: me, Erin,  and my company.  For those of you I haven't spoken to lately, Erin and I managed to get a one-bedroom in my building.  It's in a great location, pretty cheap, and in good condition, so we were hoping to stay here.  The place we got was at a reduced price, since not a lot of people are moving this time of year, and it had just been re-done with new carpet and appliances.  Really, it worked out pretty well.

So, the quick and dirty:

Spent the week packing up our office.  Erin and I signed our lease and got keys Thursday night.

Friday, we moved to the new office, and then I went home and moved most of my crap up to the new place while Erin packed up her stuff.

Saturday, I woke up early and went in to the new office to unpack with the rest of the company.  Went straight to U-Haul after that to get a truck, then went to Erin's to load up (which only took half an hour, with Schmitty and Aubri helping).

Sunday morning, Erin and I unloaded all her stuff in less than hour (I was pretty proud of us).  We spent part of the day unpacking, had ourselves a nap, then had my company holiday dinner, which was awesome.

Monday was the first day at the office.  Finished most of the unpacking there and at home.

Erin and I are pretty much settled.  We're getting real furniture sometime in January, which kind of sucks because we've just got patio furniture in front of the TV right now.  Without actual furniture and everything moved in, I just feel kind of unsettled.

We're pretty much moved into the new office too.  It's a lot bigger than the old place, which keeps surprising me because there was so little space to move around in the old office.  I keep being surprised that I don't have to goose step my way around road cases, boxes, and desks that were strewn about.

Also, I'm STILL looking for someone to move into my old place and replace me on the lease.  We've been meeting people for like three weeks.  My old roommate offered the room to about a half dozen people.  Three of them accepted, only to back out on us.  It's getting pretty frustrating.  If you know anyone looking for a place in DC, you be sure to let me know, because I don't want to pay an extra $900 at the beginning of January.
