---
layout: post
title: "2010"
date: 2010-01-01 23:53
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
permalink: /2010/01/2010
categories: [Life]
tags: [2010, new year]
---
New Year's Day seems less and less important with each passing year. I know I'm not good with resolutions, so I've never really bothered with them, but I still feel like I should at least take a moment to look back and think forward and consider where I am compared to where I want to be.

I almost said that I'm in the same place I was last year, but that couldn't be further from the truth. 2009 brought me a wedding to a lovely lady, the adoption of an adorable dog, a zero balance on my credit cards, and just last month, a new job. It was hardly uneventful, but still: just like [last year](/2009/01/another-new-year), I want to relax more, but also accomplish more on my own projects.

Like most years, I spend January 1 looking over blog posts and such from the previous year, reminiscing a little bit. There's a new one this year: the Last Played field in iTunes. My current iTunes Library seems to have begun around March 12, 2006, as that is the earlier date I have. It's weird to look at my music and see that I haven't listened to songs I once loved in well over three years, and now, it feels wrong to play them and overwrite that date in Last Played. Is that weird? That seems weird. I don't think most people actively avoid playing music just to keep from overriding an insignificant bit of metadata.

Anyway, I feel the same as I did yesterday. I still don't really know exactly how I want this year to be different, but I hope I start figuring it out soon.