---
layout: post
title: "Luddite"
date: 2005-08-30 1:03
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
permalink: /2005/08/luddite
categories: [Technology]
tags: [computers, ibook, luddite, Technology]
---
I was planning on using part of this week's paycheck to buy some RAM for my iBook. I've barely used the thing in the past six months, and I figured that it could be attributed to the fact that it's hard to do much on a machine with only 256 MB of memory.

Realistically, the problem is co-op. I used my laptop all the time in class, either taking notes or wasting time when I was bored. Working full time for the past six months, I haven't had much time or inclination to just dick around online or do much programming on the side. I feel kind of guilty neglecting the expensive toy that I spent almost a year paying off.

On the other hand, I haven't been using my desktop much either. I don't know if it's because I spend all day on a computer at work or because I've been getting out more, but I've been spending significantly less time reading blogs and passing the time online like I used to.

I hardly think this is a bad thing; most people I know at RIT could certainly stand to spend less time at a monitor. On one hand, I'd say it's good for me, because I've been spending less time sitting in my room and more time with people. Conversely, I need to find a real job soon, and should really be spending more time working on projects to beef up my portfolio.

My passion for technology and programming fell off a couple years ago, but I'm just now starting to notice it's effects only my daily life.  I still want to do IT for a living, but I don't see it as a hobby any more.
