---
layout: post
title: "Thanks"
date: 2007-11-24 15:48
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
permalink: /2007/11/thanks
categories: [Life]
tags: [thanksgiving]
---
I know I'm a few days behind, but I've been <a href="http://www.brockli.com/archives/2007/11/back_in_the_saddle.php">a few days behind for months</a>, so deal with it.

First and foremost, I am thankful this year for Erin.  I've only mentioned her in passing here, partly because I haven't been blogging lately, and partly because there are, on rare occasions, things that happen in my life that I DON'T immediately tell the Internet about.  We've been together since mid-August, and she's made me happier than I ever thought one person could.  It's such a horrible, over-used cliche, but she IS the female version of me (except cuter) - we have the same obnoxious sense of humor, like the same music and TV shows (most importantly, <a href="http://www.gogolbordello.com/">Gogol Bordello</a> and <a href="http://www.fxnetworks.com/shows/originals/sunny/">Always Sunny</a>), and we even have the same haircut (it looks better on her).  I never thought I'd find a girl like her, and I still can't believe how lucky I am.  And I love her oodles and oodles.

I'm thankful that the project from hell is over.  I kind of <a href="http://www.brockli.com/archives/2007/11/back_in_the_saddle.php">talked about it the other day</a>, but I feel like I cannot overstate how much this one project affected my life for the past six months.  I was stressed, I didn't have much free time, and a lot of times, I didn't have the energy to go out and do stuff even when I DID have free time - it was unpleasant.  It's been over for a few weeks now and things are finally getting back to normal at work.  And I'm thankful for the folks I work with, because they're good people.

I'm thankful for my friends.  I haven't seen them as much as I would have liked to lately, but that's life.  I've been realizing more and more that I've got some amazing people around me here in DC.  Thanks to them, I'm thankful for DC.  For a long time, I wasn't too enthralled with the city and figured I would leave before long.  But, it's grown on me, and a big part of that has been because of friends.

I'm thankful for apple cider.

I'm thankful that this year is nearly over.  2007 has had its ups and downs, but it's mostly been downs.  If everything goes according to plan, December will have a couple more ups, but aside from that I am good and ready for 2008.

I'm glad that Bush only has 423 days left in office.  I'm thankful for my daily Bush countdown calendar.

I'm thankful that I was able to attend the Atheist Alliance International Conference in September, I'm thankful for the people who spoke there, and I'm thankful that I've been able to read several of their books.  The more I read and think about religion, the more ridiculous it all seems, and the more I realize how dangerous religion really is in our society.  I'm thankful that these authors are being thrust into the nation's attention, and more people are really considering their beliefs and <a href="http://outcampaign.org/">coming out</a>.  Religion has long enjoyed some kind of protection from criticism, and I'm thankful that we're finally taking a good hard look at it.

I'm thankful that our country is gradually becoming more progressive, and that sooner or later, the gays will be able to marry, the churches will be nothing more than historical landmarks, the national debt will be repaid, the education system will be well-funded, and the military will be dismantled for lack of need.  I'm thankful that I am an American, and as much as I may criticize our country, I know that it can be - and will be - better than it is.
