---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts"
date: 2007-06-19 22:27
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
permalink: /2007/06/thoughts
categories: [Life]
tags: [dc, Life, thoughts]
---
I can't believe <a href="http://www.danieltosh.com/">Daniel Tosh</a> re-used so many jokes from his Comedy Central Presents show in his Completely Serious show.  Doesn't make him any less hilarious, though.

I'm 23 and my hair is thinning, significantly.  I am equal parts depressed and intrigued.  Depressed because I'm only 23, but intrigued because I think I might look good with a shaved head.

I sure to enjoy beer.  Also, rum.

I've been living in the city for three weeks now.  I really like it so far, mostly because I can walk to a lot of stuff.  I'm sort of in between everything: Metro Center (is that considered downtown?), Chinatown, Dupont Circle, U Street - it's all within ten or twelve blocks.  I'm hoping to get a bike before too long, to save some walkin' time.  Paying to Metro to work kinda sucks, but it's not bad.  And, my place is quite a bit smaller, so I was forced to get rid of a bunch of crap I didn't need.  A win on all fronts, really.

Is Condoleezza not running for president like everyone thought she would?  I'm OK with that.  And isn't Cheney due for another heart attack by now?

A while back, there was a study that more Americans were willing to elect a president who was Mormon, homosexual, Muslim, black, or female than atheist.  I am equal parts elated and depressed.  Elated because a lot of people are willing to vote for minorities, but depressed because people are still so ignorant to believe that atheists are somehow bad.

Against Me, Gogol Bordello, and Smashing Pumpkins are all releasing albums on July 10.  It's almost good enough to take a vacation day for.

I can't believe it's only Tuesday.
